("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- Why don't you have
some, go on, take it all.
- [Narrator] Ronja
and Birk were reunited
in the vault beneath
the divided fort.
But Birk was different,
he had grown very thin
because the Borka robbers had
left all their supplies behind
when fleeing their old home.
So every morning,
Ronja smuggled food
from her mother's pantry
for Birk's family.
Throughout the long winter,
this was what kept Birk
and the Borka robbers alive.
(lively music)
- It's really funny, just when
Undis thinks she's run out,
she finds more food there.
"The harpies must be
bringing us extra supplies."
That's what she said to me.
(both giggle)
But I suppose she's right,
perhaps it really
is sorcery at work.
- Huh?
- It's just, you do look a
bit like a harpy, admit it.
- Hey, don't say that.
I'm far too nice to be a harpy.
Plus, I don't even have claws.
(chuckles)
- Well, if you were a
harpy, you'd be a nice one.
I mean, how many more times
do you plan to save my
life, sister mine?
About as many times as you've
saved my life, at least.
But listen, I don't
know if you and I
can manage without one another.
We're stronger together.
- Hm, I agree,
but I can't see Mattis and
Borka kissin' and makin' up.
(both laugh)
- Hey, Birk, still hungry,
or have you eaten enough?
(comical music)
Now then, it's time, for this.
- Uh.
(idyllic music)
Thank you, I'm sure you've
combed out all the lice by now.
Which means you're just combing
my hair because you like it.
- We'll see about
that, won't we, Birk?
- Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow!
My hair,
you're going to pull
it all out, Ronja.
Can't you do it any softer?
(both laugh)
- [Narrator] As the long
winter drew to a close,
the days grew milder,
and one day ...
- [Robber] (shouting) Help!
(Robbers all shouting)
- Lovis, don't do it!
- For crying out loud!
- It's wrong!
- Have mercy on us!
- Lovis, this'll be
bad for our health.
You mustn't make us do this.
- That's right!
- Well said, Fjosok.
- I don't wanna catch a cold.
- Are you boys quite finished?
- Now you listen to this,
we're all gonna die of
cold, do you want that?
- Exactly!
- That's right!
- Stirkas, you will
remove your headband.
- But it was a gift from
my grandmother (sobbing)!
- And the rest of
you, take everything
off your heads as well.
You can't wash
yourselves with those on.
Jutis, Knotas, Pelje, come on!
(Robbers groan and whimper)
- Lovis, I can't, you
know I can't do that.
It would be horrifying.
- [Robber] Horrifying, how?
- [Fjosok] Too
horrifying to say.
(groans)
- Please have mercy!
Don't cry, Pelje!
- Even if it means you
will die of frostbite,
you will clean yourselves
until the stench of winter
is gone and I can breathe
through my nose again.
Hurry up and get to it.
(all shouting)
(light music)
- Water's ready, what's next?
- We burn it.
I'm only joking, we
bring it down for a wash.
Ronja, you'll help me
with this, won't ya?
- Of course I will.
(all whimpering and shivering)
- It's so cold!
- Like I said, it's
bad for our health.
- Bathing outside,
it's not right.
- Lovis, she's more
evil than a harpy!
Stench of winter, I'll show her.
Curse that woman, if I could,
I'd throw this right at her!
I'll remember this,
miserable maid troll.
Nagging nag, she's a demon.
- Housekeeping harpy!
- She-Wolf!
- [Robber] Hell cat!
- [Together] Demon!
(laughing)
- That was classic.
- She certainly has a way
of getting things done.
She's taken every last
strand of clothing from them,
just like a robber (snickers).
Oh, stinks.
- How about you?
Perhaps you think you don't
smell as bad as the rest,
is that it, eh?
- (laughs) Yeah,
something like that.
Too cold for an old man like me.
I won't die rolling
around naked in the snow.
(grumbles)
When I die, I wanna go with
the dirt I've got on me.
I like my smell, hm?
- Good, then you
can stay as you are
and you can help me instead.
Those robbers look
like wild goats,
they need their messy hair
and their big beards cut.
Can you do it?
- 'Ey, I'll certainly
give it a go.
I have one condition.
I'm not cuttin' what little
I've got left up there.
'Cause it's cold, down below.
That's where I'm going.
- Stop talking about dying!
(laughs nervously)
Old man, I haven't
lived a single day
of this earthly
life without you,
and I don't intend to start now.
I won't let you go and
die behind my back.
You remember that, you'd better.
- We shall see,
we shall see, yes.
(shouts) Oh, put me down!
- Mhm.
(hysterical laughing)
(comical music)
- Fjosok.
- Right, come on.
- Why do we have to wear these?
(laughing)
(Mattis and Ronja laugh)
- Sorry, I didn't mean
to laugh this much.
You all look splendid
in your new attire.
It's just the only clean clothes
we have are women's clothes.
(laughs uproariously)
- Now boys, let's make up.
(excited moans)
(all cheer)
(festive music)
(birds chirp)
(water rushes)
(rooster crows)
(horses whinny)
- Finally, back to
the life of a robber.
- Just can't wait.
- Boys, we're not going
out there to muck about.
For many generations,
from my grandfather
to my great-grandfather, to
my great-great grandfather,
Mattis' Robbers have--
- Mattis!
Mattis, hold on!
Mattis, remember, you
made a promise to me.
It's time to keep it.
I want to go to
the forest, please.
- I may have promised that,
so as a man of my
word, it will happen.
- Thank you very much
for keeping to your word.
I know that you said that
the forest is most dangerous
between winter and spring,
but it's not that time
of year anymore, is it?
Is it?
- Well, I suppose you're right.
- Yep.
- But listen, don't drown in
a pool or fall in a ravine.
Just take care of yourself,
your mother would never
let me hear the end of it.
- How about I just break my leg?
And that way, it'll give
you a reason to get angry
and shout your head off, 'cause
that's what you like to do.
(sighs)
(Ronja giggles)
- Oh, my little Ronja.
(Mattis sobs)
Let's go, yah!
(majestic music)
(sings happily)
(buoyant, cheerful music)
- Smells wonderful.
(whistles)
(birds whistle)
And good day to you (giggles).
So good to see you.
(laughs joyously)
Birk, over here!
- Well, it's about
time you showed up!
(laughs)
(sings a sustained note)
(sings at a higher pitch)
(yells fiercely)
(geese honk)
- How's that?
I call it my
special spring yell.
Gets rid of that
old winter, gone!
(snickers)
Now, ready?
One more time to be sure.
(yells)
- [Narrator] Spring had
arrived in the forest,
the spring of life.
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
"Splendid Spring".
Don't miss it.
(light music)